FPGA: Replacing the `max_concurrency` tutorial with one for `private_copies` (#3)
justin-rosner/oneAPI-samples: DirectProgramming/DPC++FPGA/Tutorials/Features/private_copies/README.md

The [oneAPI DPC++ FPGA Optimization Guide](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-fpga-optimization-guide) is the reference manual for targeting FPGAs through DPC++. <br>
The [oneAPI Programming Guide](https://software.intel.com/en-us/oneapi-programming-guide) is a general resource for target-independent DPC++ programming.

| Optimized for                     | Description
---                                 |---
| OS                                | Linux* Ubuntu* 18.04; Windows* 10
| Hardware                          | Intel® Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA; <br> Intel® FPGA Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX)
| Software                          | Intel® oneAPI DPC++ Compiler <br> Intel® FPGA Add-On for oneAPI Base Toolkit 
| What you will learn               | The basic usage of the `private_copies` attribute <br> How the `private_copies` attribute affects the throughput and resource use of your DPC++ FPGA program <br> How to apply the `private_copies` attribute to variables or arrays in your program <br> How to identify the correct `private_copies` factor for your program

> | Time to complete                  | 15 minutes

Reviewer: Please talk to Audrey to get the new wording relating to 3rd party BSPs and update the README accordingly.

Reviewer: Actually, just look at this PR: https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/pull/507/ and replicate all the changes to your README.

Reviewer: I'm assuming you did this?  If so, please 'resolve' this conversation.

## Purpose
This tutorial demonstrates a simple example of applying the `private_copies` attribute to an array within a loop in a task kernel to trade off the on-chip memory use and throughput of the loop.

### Description of the `private_copies` Attribute

> The `private_copies` attribute is a memory attribute that enables you to control the number of private copies of any variable or array declared inside a pipelined loop. These private copies allow multiple iterations of the loop to run concurrently by providing them their own private workspaces. The number of concurrent loop iterations is limited by the number of private copies specified by the `private_copies` attribute.

Reviewer: I don't like the term 'workspaces' here.  How about 'their own private copies of arrays to operate on'.

  }
  for (size_t j = 0; j < kSize; j++)
    r += a[j];
}    
```

In this example, you only need to have two private copies of array `a` in order to have 2 concurrent outer loop iterations. The `private_copies` attribute in this example forces the compiler to create two private copies of the array `a`. In general, passing the parameter `N` to the `private_copies` attribute limits the number of private copies created for array `a` to `N`, which in turn limits the concurrency of the outer loop to `N`.

### Identifying the Correct `private_copies` Factor
Generally, increasing the number of private copies of an array within a loop situated in a task kernel will increase the throughput of that loop at the cost of increased memory use. However, in most cases, there is a limit beyond which increasing the number of private copies does not have any further effect on the throughput of the loop. That limit is the maximum exploitable concurrency of the outer loop. 

The correct `private_copies` factor for a given array depends on your goals for the design, the criticality of the loop in question, and its impact on your design's overall throughput. A typical design flow may be to: 

> 1. Experiment with different values of `private_copies`. 

Reviewer: I think we should add a comment that it may be possible in many cases to determine analytically the correct value for private copies, it doesn't always have to be trial and error.  The reports give you a lot of information to help determine an appropriate value (latency, loop capacity, ...)

Author: Do you think it would be beneficial to have a separate section in the README showcasing an example of how to use the reports to analytically choose the private_copies value?

Reviewer: Yes, if that's reasonably easy to generate I think it would be great.

Author: Section to tell user about analytically estimating the correct value of private_copies can be found under "Identifying the Correct private_copies Factor" and the comment about why we see better throughput with 3 copies instead of 2 is under the "Discussion of Results"

## Examining the Reports
Locate `report.html` in the `private_copies_report.prj/reports/` or `private_copies_s10_pac_report.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in any of Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*.

On the main report page, scroll down to the section titled "Estimated Resource Usage". Each kernel name ends in the `private_copies` attribute argument used for that kernel, e.g., `kernelCompute1` uses a `private_copies` attribute value of 1. You can verify that the number of RAMs used for each kernel increases with the private_copies value used, with the exception of private_copies 0, which instructs the compiler to choose a default value.

## Running the Sample

 1. Run the sample on the FPGA emulator (the kernel executes on the CPU):
     ```
     ./private_copies.fpga_emu     (Linux)
     private_copies.fpga_emu.exe   (Windows)
     ```
2. Run the sample on the FPGA device:
     ```
     ./private_copies.fpga         (Linux)
     ```

### Example of Output
```
PASSED_fpga_compile

> Kernel time when private_copies is set to 0: 1441.45 ms

Reviewer: What does 0 private copies mean?  Does that mean the compiler chooses?  You should make that clear.  Otherwise it makes no sense to see a throughput reduction when going from 0 to 1.

Kernel throughput when private_copies is set to 0: 0.568 GFlops
Kernel time when private_copies is set to 1: 2916.440 ms
Kernel throughput when private_copies is set to 1: 0.281 GFlops
Kernel time when private_copies is set to 2: 1458.260 ms
Kernel throughput when private_copies is set to 2: 0.562 GFlops
Kernel time when private_copies is set to 3: 1441.450 ms
Kernel throughput when private_copies is set to 3: 0.568 GFlops
Kernel time when private_copies is set to 4: 1441.448 ms
Kernel throughput when private_copies is set to 4: 0.568 GFlops
PASSED: The results are correct
```

### Discussion of Results

The stdout output shows the throughput (GFlops) for each kernel. 

> When run on the Intel® PAC with Intel Arria10® 10 GX FPGA hardware board, we see that the throughput doubles from using private_copies 1 to private_copies 2. Further increasing the value of private_copies does not increase the throughput achieved, i.e., increasing the private_copies above 2 will spend additional RAM resources for no additional throughput gain. As such, for this tutorial design, maximal throughput is best achieved by using private_copies 2. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When run on the Intel® PAC with Intel Arria10® 10 GX FPGA hardware board, we see that the throughput of the kernel doubles when going from 1 to 2 private copies for array `a`. Further increasing the number of privat ecopies does not increase the throughput achieved, i.e., increasing the number of private copies above 2 will spend additional RAM resources for no additional throughput gain. As such, for this tutorial design, maximal throughput is best achieved when using 2 private copies. 
```

> Using private_copies 0 (or equivalently omitting the attribute entirely) also produced good throughput, indicating that the compiler's default heuristic chose a private_copies value of 2 or higher in this case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting the `private_copies` attribute to 0 (or equivalently omitting the attribute entirely) also produced good throughput, indicating that the compiler's default heuristic chose to create 2 or more private copies for array `a`.
```

> Setting the `private_copies` attribute to 0 (or equivalently omitting the attribute entirely) also produced good throughput, indicating that the compiler's default heuristic chose to create 2 or more private copies for array `a`.

Reviewer: Hmm, I see you did specify this here.  I'd still add a comment above about what 0 private copies means.

Author: I added a comment in the "Examining the Reports" section

> When run on the FPGA emulator, the private_copies attribute has no effect on runtime. You may notice that the emulator achieved higher throughput than the FPGA in this example. This is because this trivial example uses only a tiny fraction of the spatial compute resources available on the FPGA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When run on the FPGA emulator, the `private_copies` attribute has no effect on kernel time. You may actually notice that the emulator achieved higher throughput than the FPGA in this example. This is because this trivial example uses only a tiny fraction of the spatial compute resources available on the FPGA.
```

# Private Copies

> This FPGA tutorial explains how to use the `private_copies` attribute to improve concurrent outer loop iterations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This FPGA tutorial explains how to use the `private_copies` attribute to trade off the on-chip memory use and the throughput of a DPC++ FPGA program.
```

***Documentation***:  The [DPC++ FPGA Code Samples Guide](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/articles/explore-dpcpp-through-intel-fpga-code-samples.html) helps you to navigate the samples and build your knowledge of DPC++ for FPGA. <br>
The [oneAPI DPC++ FPGA Optimization Guide](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-fpga-optimization-guide) is the reference manual for targeting FPGAs through DPC++. <br>
The [oneAPI Programming Guide](https://software.intel.com/en-us/oneapi-programming-guide) is a general resource for target-independent DPC++ programming.

| Optimized for                     | Description
---                                 |---
| OS                                | Linux* Ubuntu* 18.04; Windows* 10
| Hardware                          | Intel® Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA; <br> Intel® FPGA Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX)
| Software                          | Intel® oneAPI DPC++ Compiler <br> Intel® FPGA Add-On for oneAPI Base Toolkit 

> | What you will learn               | The basic usage of the `private_copies` attribute <br> How the `private_copies` attribute affects loop throughput and resource use <br> How to apply the `private_copies` attribute in your program <br> How to identify the correct `private_copies` factor for your program

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| What you will learn               | The basic usage of the `private_copies` attribute <br> How the `private_copies` attribute affects the throughput and resource use of your DPC++ FPGA program <br> How to apply the `private_copies` attribute to variables or arrays in your program <br> How to identify the correct `private_copies` factor for your program
```

> | What you will learn               | The basic usage of the `private_copies` attribute <br> How the `private_copies` attribute affects loop throughput and resource use <br> How to apply the `private_copies` attribute to loops in your program <br> How to identify the correct `private_copies` factor for your program

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| What you will learn               | The basic usage of the `private_copies` attribute <br> How the `private_copies` attribute affects loop throughput and resource use <br> How to apply the `private_copies` attribute in your program <br> How to identify the correct `private_copies` factor for your program
```

| Time to complete                  | 15 minutes

## Purpose
This tutorial demonstrates a simple example of applying the `private_copies` attribute to an array within a loop in a task kernel to trade off the on-chip memory use and throughput of the loop.

### Description of the `private_copies` Attribute

> The `private_copies` attribute is a loop attribute that enables you to control the number of copies of any memory that this is applied to. This works best when applying to any memory that has single iteration scope, thus enabling simultaneously executed loop iterations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `private_copies` attribute is a memory attribute that enables you to control the number of private copies of any variable or array declared inside a pipelined loop. These private copies allow multiple iterations of the loop to run concurrently by providing them their own private workspaces. The number of concurrent loop iterations is limited by the number of private copies specified by the `private_copies` attribute.
```

#### Example: 

> Kernels in this tutorial design apply `[[intel::private_copies(N)]]` to an array within the outer loop that is used by subsequent inner loops. These inner loops perform a global memory access before storing the results. The following is an example of such a loop:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kernels in this tutorial design apply `[[intel::private_copies(N)]]` to an array declared within an outer loop that is used by subsequent inner loops. These inner loops perform a global memory access before storing the results. The following is an example of such a loop:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: We should make this a C++ block to get all the nice colors :)

> Kernels in this tutorial design apply `[[intel::private_copies(N)]]` to an array declared within an outer loop that is used by subsequent inner loops. These inner loops perform a global memory access before storing the results. The following is an example of such a loop:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kernels in this tutorial design apply `[[intel::private_copies(N)]]` to an array declared within an outer loop and used by subsequent inner loops. These inner loops perform a global memory access before storing the results. The following is an example of such a loop:
```

> [[intel::private_copies(2)]]

Reviewer 2: No attribute on the loop required.

for (size_t i = 0; i < kMaxIter; i++) {
  [[intel::private_copies(2)]] int a[kSize];
  for (size_t j = 0; j < kSize; j++) {
    a[j] = accessor_array[(i * 4 + j) % kSize] * shift;
  }
  for (size_t j = 0; j < kSize; j++)
    r += a[j];
}    
```

> In this example, you only need to have two private copies of array `a` in order to have 2 concurrent outer loop iterations. The `private_copies` attribute in this example forces the compiler to create two private copies of the array `a`. Passing the parameter `N` to the `private_copies` attribute limits the number of privately-declared arrays that can be made in that loop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, you only need to have two private copies of array `a` in order to have 2 concurrent outer loop iterations. The `private_copies` attribute in this example forces the compiler to create two private copies of the array `a`. In general, passing the parameter `N` to the `private_copies` attribute limits the number of private copies created for array `a` to `N`, which in turn limits the concurrency of the outer loop to `N`.
```

### Identifying the Correct `private_copies` Factor

> Generally, increasing the number of private copies of an array within a loop situated in a task kernel will increase the throughput of that loop at the cost of increased memory usage. Additionally, in most cases there is a point at which increasing the number of private copies does not have any further effect on the throughput of the loop, as the maximum exploitable concurrency of that loop has been achieved. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generally, increasing the number of private copies of an array within a loop situated in a task kernel will increase the throughput of that loop at the cost of increased memory usage. However, in most cases, there is a limit beyond which increasing the number of private copies does not have any further effect on the throughput of the loop. That limit is the maximum exploitable concurrency of the outer loop. 
```

> Generally, increasing the number of private copies of an array within a loop situated in a task kernel will increase the throughput of that loop at the cost of increased memory usage. However, in most cases, there is a limit beyond which increasing the number of private copies does not have any further effect on the throughput of the loop. That limit is the maximum exploitable concurrency of the outer loop. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generally, increasing the number of private copies of an array within a loop situated in a task kernel will increase the throughput of that loop at the cost of increased memory use. However, in most cases, there is a limit beyond which increasing the number of private copies does not have any further effect on the throughput of the loop. That limit is the maximum exploitable concurrency of the outer loop. 
```

The correct `private_copies` factor for a given array depends on your goals for the design, the criticality of the loop in question, and its impact on your design's overall throughput. A typical design flow may be to: 
1. Experiment with different values of `private_copies`. 

> 2. Observe what impact the values have on the overall throughput and memory use of your design.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Observe what impact the values have on the overall throughput and memory usage of your design.
```

> 2. Observe what impact the values have on the overall throughput and memory usage of your design.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Observe what impact the values have on the overall throughput and memory use of your design.
```

3. Choose the appropriate value that allows you to achieve your desired throughput and area goals.

## Key Concepts
* The basic usage of the `private_copies` attribute 

> * How the `private_copies` attribute affects loop throughput and resource use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How the `private_copies` attribute affects loop throughput and resource usage
```

> * How to apply the `private_copies` attribute to loops in your program

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How to apply the `private_copies` attribute to variables or arrays in your program
```

> * How the `private_copies` attribute affects loop throughput and resource usage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How the `private_copies` attribute affects the throughput and resource use of your DPC++ FPGA program
```

## Examining the Reports
Locate `report.html` in the `private_copies_report.prj/reports/` or `private_copies_s10_pac_report.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in any of Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*.

On the main report page, scroll down to the section titled "Estimated Resource Usage". Each kernel name ends in the `private_copies` attribute argument used for that kernel, e.g., `kernelCompute1` uses a `private_copies` attribute value of 1. You can verify that the number of RAMs used for each kernel increases with the private_copies value used, with the exception of private_copies 0, which instructs the compiler to choose a default value.

## Running the Sample

 1. Run the sample on the FPGA emulator (the kernel executes on the CPU):
     ```
     ./private_copies.fpga_emu     (Linux)
     private_copies.fpga_emu.exe   (Windows)
     ```
2. Run the sample on the FPGA device:
     ```
     ./private_copies.fpga         (Linux)
     ```

> ### Example of Output

Reviewer 2: Did you reproduce these numbers?

Author: Yes, these numbers are reproducible

```
PASSED_fpga_compile
Num private_copies 0 kernel time : 1441.45 ms
Throughput for kernel with private_copies 0: 0.568 GFlops
Num private_copies 1 kernel time : 2916.440 ms
Throughput for kernel with private_copies 1: 0.281 GFlops
Num private_copies 2 kernel time : 1458.260 ms
Throughput for kernel with private_copies 2: 0.562 GFlops
Num private_copies 3 kernel time : 1441.450 ms
Throughput for kernel with private_copies 3: 0.568 GFlops
Num private_copies 4 kernel time : 1441.448 ms
Throughput for kernel with private_copies 4: 0.568 GFlops
PASSED: The results are correct
```

### Discussion of Results

The stdout output shows the throughput (GFlops) for each kernel. 

When run on the Intel® PAC with Intel Arria10® 10 GX FPGA hardware board, we see that the throughput doubles from using private_copies 1 to private_copies 2. Further increasing the value of private_copies does not increase the throughput achieved, i.e., increasing the private_copies above 2 will spend additional RAM resources for no additional throughput gain. As such, for this tutorial design, maximal throughput is best achieved by using private_copies 2. 

> Using private_copies 0 (or equivalently omitting the attribute entirely) also produced good throughput, indicating that the compiler's default heuristic chose a private_copies value of 2 or higher in this case.

Reviewer 2: Are you sure `private_copies(0)` is equivalent to not having the attribute at all? That's true for `max_concurrency` but may not be true for `private_copies`.

Author: Yes. This is what is currently mentioned in our docs

## Running the Sample

 1. Run the sample on the FPGA emulator (the kernel executes on the CPU):
     ```
     ./private_copies.fpga_emu     (Linux)
     private_copies.fpga_emu.exe   (Windows)
     ```
2. Run the sample on the FPGA device:
     ```
     ./private_copies.fpga         (Linux)
     ```

### Example of Output
```
PASSED_fpga_compile
Kernel time when private_copies is set to 0: 1441.45 ms
Kernel throughput when private_copies is set to 0: 0.568 GFlops
Kernel time when private_copies is set to 1: 2916.440 ms
Kernel throughput when private_copies is set to 1: 0.281 GFlops
Kernel time when private_copies is set to 2: 1458.260 ms
Kernel throughput when private_copies is set to 2: 0.562 GFlops
Kernel time when private_copies is set to 3: 1441.450 ms
Kernel throughput when private_copies is set to 3: 0.568 GFlops
Kernel time when private_copies is set to 4: 1441.448 ms
Kernel throughput when private_copies is set to 4: 0.568 GFlops
PASSED: The results are correct
```

### Discussion of Results

The stdout output shows the throughput (GFlops) for each kernel. 

> When run on the Intel® PAC with Intel Arria10® 10 GX FPGA hardware board, we see that the throughput of the kernel doubles when going from 1 to 2 private copies for array `a`. Further increasing the number of private copies does not increase the throughput achieved, i.e., increasing the number of private copies above 2 will spend additional RAM resources for no additional throughput gain. As such, for this tutorial design, maximal throughput is best achieved when using 2 private copies. The small jump in throughput observed from using 3 private copies instead of 2 can be attributed to the third private copy allowing consequent outer loop iterations to launch slightly sooner then they would with 2 private copies.

Reviewer: This is much better!  Just a bit of a tweak needed here.

Your statement 'Further increasing the number of private copies does not increase the throughput achieved' is not correct, which you acknowledge later.  I find this a bit confusing.  How about this:

When run on the Intel® PAC with Intel Arria10® 10 GX FPGA hardware board, we see that the throughput of the kernel approximately doubles when going from 1 to 2 private copies for array `a`. Increasing to 3 private copies has a very small affect, and further increasing the number of private copies does not increase the throughput achieved. This means that increasing private copies beyond 2 will incur an area penalty for little or no throughput gain. As such, for this tutorial design, optimal throughput/area tradeoff is achieved when using 2 private copies.  This is as expected based on an analysis of the code, as there are two inner loops which are able to run in parallel if they each have their own private copy of the array. The small jump in throughput observed from using 3 private copies instead of 2 can be attributed to the third private copy allowing subsequent outer loop iterations to launch slightly sooner then they would with 2 private copies due to internal delays in tracking the use of each private copy.

> Setting the `private_copies` attribute to 0 (or equivalently omitting the attribute entirely) also produced good throughput, indicating that the compiler's default heuristic chose to create 2 or more private copies for array `a`.

Reviewer: How about:

Setting the `private_copies` attribute to 0 (or equivalently omitting the attribute entirely) produced good throughput, and the reports show us that the compiler selected 3 private copies.  This does produce the optimal throughput, but in this case it probably makes sense to save some area in exchange for a very small throughput loss by specifying 2 private copies instead.

## Examining the Reports
Locate `report.html` in the `private_copies_report.prj/reports/` or `private_copies_s10_pac_report.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in any of Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*.

On the main report page, scroll down to the section titled "Estimated Resource Usage". Each kernel name ends in the `private_copies` attribute argument used for that kernel, e.g., `kernelCompute1` uses a `private_copies` attribute value of 1. You can verify that the number of RAMs used for each kernel increases with the `private_copies` value used, with the exception of `private_copies` 0. Using `private_copies` 0 instructs the compiler to choose a default value, which is often close to the value that would give you maximum throughput.

### Analytically determining the `private_copies` value

> Once you have the main report page open, click on the dropdown titled "Throughput Analysis" and choose the "Loop Analysis" option. Now you can choose to look at "Kernel: Kernel<0>" and this will provide information for the three loops of Kernel<0>. Specifically, you want to be looking at the concurrency value found by clicking on the array `a` in the "Bottlenecks" section of the report. In the details pane it will now highlight that the concurrency value for `a` is 3 in addition to the fact that there is a throughput bottleneck on Loop "B3" that has a latency of 222.0. Using this information combined with the knowledge that the "Block Scheduled fMAX" is 240.00, we can make an analytical estimate that using `private_copies` of 3 or higher will deliver optimal throughput performance. 

Reviewer: I don't understand why the block schedule fmax or the latency are relevant to determining the optimal number of private copies?
